# How to Stop Playing Whack-a-Mole: Mapping the Ecosystem of Technologies Facilitating AI-Generated Non-Consensual Intimate Images [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.04759)] [[PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2602.04759)]

## Michelle L. Ding, Harini Suresh, Suresh Venkatasubramanian

The last decade has witnessed a rapid advancement of generative AI technology that significantly scaled the accessibility of AI-generated non-consensual intimate images (AIG-NCII), a form of image-based sexual abuse that disproportionately harms and silences women and girls. There is a patchwork of commendable efforts across industry, policy, academia, and civil society to address AIG-NCII. However, these efforts lack a shared, consistent mental model that clearly situates the technologies they target within the context of a large, interconnected, and ever-evolving technological ecosystem. As a result, interventions remain siloed and are difficult to evaluate and compare, leading to a reactive cycle of whack-a-mole. In this paper, we contribute the first comprehensive AIG-NCII technological ecosystem that maps and taxonomizes 11
categories of technologies facilitating the creation, distribution, proliferation and discovery, infrastructural support, and monetization of AIG-NCII. First, we build and visualize the ecosystem through a synthesis of over a hundred primary sources from researchers, journalists, advocates, policymakers, and technologists. Next, we demonstrate how stakeholders can use the ecosystem as a tool to 1) understand new incidents of harm via a case study of Grok and 2) evaluate existing interventions via three more case studies. We conclude with three actionable recommendations, namely that stakeholders should 1) use the ecosystem to map out state, federal, and international laws to produce a clearer policy landscape, 2) collectively develop a centralized
database that dynamically tracks the 11 technologies in the ecosystem to better evaluate interventions, and 3) adopt a relational approach to researching AIG-NCII that studies the “edges” of the ecosystem map to better understand how the ecosystem technologies interact. Our goal is to produce an AIG-NCII technological ecosystem that provides a clear, shared terminology and framework for stakeholders to move into the future of AIG-NCII prevention with clarity and foresight.

## Stay Updated
This is an ongoing project. We have released the preprint and v1.0 of the ecosystem as a resource for stakeholders to aid current policy, research, and advocacy AIG-NCII mitigation efforts. To get notified on updates regarding the research paper and/or website tool, subscribe to: 

## Contact
For further inquiry, contact [Michelle L. Ding](https://michelle-ding.github.io/) at michelle_ding@brown.edu. Feedback and suggestions welcome!